---
title: Introduction
sidebar_label: Introduction
---

The Voice Biometric project is a showcase to demonstrate the strengths of using
voice as a biometric solution for voice and speech recognition, and therefore,
the identification and authentication of mobile users to access mobile services.

The project consists of an IVR Server System that allows the user to talk to
voicebot through a menu of different possibilities. The services available are a
simulation of real services and have the purpose of demonstrate the use of voice
registration and authentication.

The system architecture has three main elements (call center, Engine and
Biometric Supplier) and works like the figure shown below. the user calls the
call center to access the menu and the available use cases. The call center
communicates with the engine that acts as an orchestrator between the call
center and the biometric supplier, managing the communication between them. The
biometric supplier in turn provides the solution for voice recording and voice
recognition.

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<img alt="Voice Biometrics Architecture"
src={useBaseUrl('img/VoiceArchitecture.svg')} />

The registration will take place through the voice recording for a specific
passphrase, the voice patterns detection and speech styles detection. Thus the
biometric solution creates a digital signature for the user. Once the record is
created, it is possible to perform authentication using the registered
passphrase by comparing the current user's voice with the stored signature.

The project is an open source asset that allows financial service providers to
test the use of voice for authenticating customersâ€™ identity in different use
cases. Specifically, the asset will allow operators and FSPs to:

1. Register their voice,

2. Navigate menus and execute commands using their voice,

3. Receive phone calls to validate actions/activities, and

4. Identify themselves using their voice to be granted permission to execute
   secure actions.

**Figure:** The figure below shows a more detailed view comparing the voice
asset with our architecture.

<img alt="Voice Biometrics Detailed Architecture"
src={useBaseUrl('img/VoiceDetailedArch.png')} />

:::warning Note It is important to point out that the proposed demo asset will
only be available to service providers to test with demo data i.e. no real
customer data will be used in this project. :::
